WHOIS: 
WHOIS is a protocol that provides information about registered domain names, 
IP addresses, and autonomous systems. WHOIS queries can be used to find out who owns a domain name, 
when it was registered, and when it will expire, among other details.
Syntax: whois [domain name or IP address]
Example: To get information about the domain "google.com", you can run the command 
    whois google.com.


DIG: 
DIG is a command-line tool for querying DNS servers (Querying DNS servers refers to the process 
of requesting information from a Domain Name System (DNS) server.). 
It can be used to look up various DNS records, such as A, MX, NS, and TXT records. 
DIG can be used to troubleshoot DNS issues, verify DNS configurations, and gather information about DNS servers.
Syntax: dig [domain name or IP address] [query type]
Example: To look up the A record for the domain "google.com", you can run the command
    dig google.com A.


NSLOOKUP: 
NSLOOKUP is another command-line tool for querying DNS servers (Querying DNS servers refers to the process 
of requesting information from a Domain Name System (DNS) server.). 
It can be used to look up various DNS records, such as A, MX, NS, and TXT records. 
NSLOOKUP can be used to troubleshoot DNS issues, verify DNS configurations, and gather information about DNS servers.
Syntax: nslookup [domain name or IP address] [query type]
Example: To look up the A record for the domain "google.com", you can run the command 
    nslookup google.com A.


TRACEROUTE: 
TRACEROUTE is a command-line tool used to trace the path that packets take from your computer to a destination host. 
TRACEROUTE can be used to identify network bottlenecks, troubleshoot network connectivity issues, 
and gather information about the network topology between your computer and a destination host.
Syntax: traceroute [destination host or IP address]
Example: To trace the path to the domain "google.com", you can run the command 
    traceroute google.com.




A, MX, NS, and TXT are types of DNS resource records (RRs) that are used to store information about domain names 
in the Domain Name System (DNS).

A record: It is also known as the Address record, maps a hostname to an IPv4 address. 
It is the most common type of DNS record and is used to translate domain names into IP addresses. 
For example, the A record for "google.com" maps the domain name to its IPv4 address, such as "172.217.164.174".

MX record: The Mail Exchange (MX) record specifies the mail server responsible for accepting email messages 
on behalf of a domain. It maps a domain name to a list of mail exchange servers for that domain. 
For example, the MX record for "example.com" might specify that the email should be delivered to the mail server 
at "mail.example.com".

NS record: The Name Server (NS) record indicates the authoritative DNS servers for a domain. 
It is used to delegate a domain name to a set of DNS servers that are responsible for resolving requests for that domain. 
For example, the NS record for "example.com" might specify the authoritative DNS servers as 
"ns1.example.com" and "ns2.example.com".

TXT record: The Text (TXT) record stores arbitrary text data associated with a domain name. 
It can be used for a variety of purposes, such as domain ownership verification, email authentication, and anti-spam measures. 
For example, the TXT record for "example.com" might contain a verification code to prove ownership of the domain to a 
third-party service.